Hello and welcome back. In this section I'm going to show you how to use codex
to work with radare2 a very powerful reverse engineering tool and I'm going to ask codex
to install radare2 and also any accompanying relevant tools and also to set up the radare2
reverse engineering lab. And before you start to do anything
I would recommend highly that you head over to Oracle VirtualBox Manager and take a snapshot
of the current state of the virtual machine and call it pre-radare2, so that in case
anything goes wrong and you want to restore, you can just easily come back here and restore
to the state it was in before you install radare2. Then the next thing I did was I created
a prompt. I use this prompt to ask chatgpt to create the necessary installation prompt.
So this is what I pasted into chatgpt. I said I want to use codex to install radare2
and r2-pipe on windows 11. r2-pipe is a part of the tool used by radare2 as well.
So I can show it to you here. If you head over to radare website, you will see that there are two
main tools, Radare2 and R2Pipe. And Radare2 is the main tool itself and R2Pipe is the scripting
tool. So you can let Codex use both. So that's why in here I mentioned Radare2 and also R2Pipe.
I want to use Codex to install Radare2 and R2Pipe on Windows 11 to reverse engineer Windows
binaries. It should install them for me and for usage, it should be able to use the proper tools,
either radare2 or r2-pipe, depending on what it needs to be done to analyze a binary.
Create this project folder, see radare2-AI, for any related work with radare2.
Write a suitable prompt in .md format for me. So this prompt here is actually an installation
prompt. And all these prompts you can download from the resource section, including this one.
After I gave this to ChatGPT, ChatGPT came up with radare2 install and this is
the radare2 install. So radare2 install is also a markdown file and you can
open this markdown file and if you want to see it being rendered as markdown
preview, all you need to do is press ctrl shift V. So here it lays out the
objective, the important rules, and how to check for existing environment, how to
install radare 2, and many many more things. So this is the installation skill
which you are going to give to Codex so that Codex can install and set up
your engineering lab for radare 2. And then I also asked ChatGPT to create a
skills file. Once Codex has finished installing radare2 and r2pipe using this prompt file,
I asked ChatGPT to generate another skill file. A skill file to let any AI agent use the installed
r2pipe and radare2 lab. And ChatGPT came up with a second one here. This is the skills file.
So again press ctrl shift v and you can see this. So this skill tells Codex how to use the existing
R2, radare 2 and R2 pipe environment on Windows 11 for reverse engineering. This file you give to
Codex to ask Codex to use this file to install radare 2 and R2 pipe and once it is finished
installing and you want it to use the radare 2 and R2 pipe then you ask it to read this file.
So basically these are the two files you need. So you can download these three files 1, 2, 3
from the resource section for this lesson for this section so now let's head over to our
virtual machine. So over here I'm going to boot up my oracle virtualbox this one and it's already
booted up let's go to full screen so now i'm going to open the first prompt which is this one
this one I already used it to generate the other two prompts so this prompt was
the first prompt that I used to create this installation prompt and this skill
file. Okay so this we don't need to do this anymore now since I've done it for
you but if you want to start from scratch then you can start with this one
paste into chatgpt ask chatgpt to create this and this. Right so since we have
that now let's go to this let's open installation md okay so this installation md you are going to
give it to codex to read so let's open codex now okay so now i'm going to tell it i'm going
to upload this file that means I can just drag the install file here and put it here
and ask it to read this file close the sidebar read this file for this project
if you are unsure of anything don't guess don't assume ask me. Alright so
let's take a look at the contents of this one installation press ctrl shift V.
So this file is basically telling codex that our objective is to set up a
Windows 11 reverse engineering environment using all these tools
whatever is necessary and the goal is to allow codex to use either this or
this whatever is necessary and these are some important rules now I'll write. Once
you are sure go ahead with the project give it full
access and here make sure you choose the latest gpt this is gpt 5.5 the best model right now
and then here you set the reasoning to high. Okay and let it go so just click send and see what it
does so now it is thinking. While it is thinking maybe I can do some changes to the settings
appearance maybe I change this to dark mode. Now back to app and close the sidebar.
So it reports that the file is clear enough to proceed and now it's checking
whether python is present so it's going to start the installation now and it
reports that it has found an official Windows zip asset and it's going to put
everything in this folder which we recommended and suggested and it reports
that the zip is downloaded cleanly and even checked the hash to make sure it is
your genuine files and it reports that radare2 is now on the user path and now moving on to the
python site. And now it reports that it has successfully imported the virtual environment
and now creating some reusable helper scripts. And now it says that the scripts and readme are
written and now it's going to perform a test. So you can see how useful it is to use codex
to install. If we had to do this manually probably we would have tripped up on something. And now it
reports that the helper scripts are successful. And now it's doing the final verification checks
from the configured workspace. Finally it says done. It has set up this radare 2 ai lab
with the helper R2 pipe scripts and other scripts as well and also created all the other documents
and tools which we require it to do. So now we will ask it to check our skills file to see if
anything needs to be updated so we will drag this skill file here before that let's take a look at
the skills file control shift V. And you can see that this skill file is to tell Codex how to use
the existing radare2 and R2Pipe environment on Windows 11 for reverse engineering.
This is not the installation guide.
And this assumes that radare2 and R2Pipe have already been installed and verified. And this
skill file is to be used so that Codex knows where the lab folder is located, where binary
should be placed, where report should be saved and so on.
So now we're going to give this to Codex to ask it if it needs to be updated.
So just drag it in here.
This was the skill file generated prior to installation of radare 2.
Check it to see if anything in it needs to be updated.
Hit enter.
So it says it will inspect the existing skill file against what was actually installed and
verified, and then update only the parts that are now stale or misleading.
And it says that a few things are stale, the file says logs and skills should exist, but
the installed workspace didn't include them yet, and so on.
So it's going to update the skill file to match the live setup, and create the missing
organizational folders so filter sessions don't trip on mismatched assumptions and it reports
that it has added the missing logs and skills files to the lab root and now it is editing
the skill text itself so that its folder tree verification commands and so on reflect the actual
machine state. So for your case when you are doing this I would recommend that you also perform what
I did because this file even though you download it from the resource section it might not work
for your machine which might be different and every codex session runs differently. So
so use it skillfully. Ask codex to help you double check and update as needed. Fnally it has updated
the skill file and made the following changes. It also created the missing logs and skills folders
and copy the updated skill to the to this file and updated the readme file. So
let's go and take a look at the final output now we'll go to the C Drive to
the radare 2 AI folder and take a look at the skills here. And you can see
radare2 skills are there. This is the updated one. So it seems that
installation is complete. So we one more time confirm. So
is radare radare 2 and r2 pipe now fully installed and ready for use. Just a
confirmation question. And we confirm yes radare 2 and r2 pipe are installed and
ready for use and it even tells you how to use it. But of course we are not going
to use it by hand manually we are going to use it using codex. So that's all for
this video we have completely installed it and completed installation now. In the
next video  we are going to start using this radare 2 and R2 pipe by
using codex to do it for us. So that's all for this lesson thank you for
watching.